Source: DC Eater — Essential Restaurants
Type: article
Category: general
URL: https://dc.eater.com/maps/best-bars-restaurants-bakeries-baltimore-dining-guide-38
---

Welcome to the Eater 38, a regularly updated guide of restaurants that represent Baltimore’s current culinary identity. This map showcases a mix of destinations for Charm City’s emblematic crab cakes and treats from the Chesapeake Bay, plus a globe-trotting assortment of places boasting bold flavors from Venezuela, France, Italy, Japan, Mexico, and West Africa.
Baltimore’s 38 Essential Restaurants
Where to eat crab cakes, oxtail ragu, duck confit, sushi, and much more
Sadly, the pandemic forced some of Baltimore’s favorites to shutter or pivot in a new direction (RIP, Lobo, Ida B’s, and Bertha’s). And while there are plenty of new and noteworthy spots opening in Baltimore, restaurants on this map must be at least six months old.
For our latest Baltimore 38 map refresh, new additions include: The Wren, for cozy Irish fare in Fells Point; The Urban Oyster, for fried oyster deviled eggs and whole grilled branzino with salsa verde, Costiera, for Mediterranean-leaning local seafood and comforting pastas; and Gunther, for modern American cuisine with global flair in Brewers Hill.
The following restaurants are leaving the 38: Ambassador Dining Room, Blk Swan, Cocina Luchadoras (in relocation mode), and Cafe Campli, which recently closed.
Baltimore’s 38 Essential Restaurants
Where to eat crab cakes, oxtail ragu, duck confit, sushi, and much more
Welcome to the Eater 38, a regularly updated guide of restaurants that represent Baltimore’s current culinary identity. This map showcases a mix of destinations for Charm City’s emblematic crab cakes and treats from the Chesapeake Bay, plus a globe-trotting assortment of places boasting bold flavors from Venezuela, France, Italy, Japan, Mexico, and West Africa.
Sadly, the pandemic forced some of Baltimore’s favorites to shutter or pivot in a new direction (RIP, Lobo, Ida B’s, and Bertha’s). And while there are plenty of new and noteworthy spots opening in Baltimore, restaurants on this map must be at least six months old.
For our latest Baltimore 38 map refresh, new additions include: The Wren, for cozy Irish fare in Fells Point; The Urban Oyster, for fried oyster deviled eggs and whole grilled branzino with salsa verde, Costiera, for Mediterranean-leaning local seafood and comforting pastas; and Gunther, for modern American cuisine with global flair in Brewers Hill.
The following restaurants are leaving the 38: Ambassador Dining Room, Blk Swan, Cocina Luchadoras (in relocation mode), and Cafe Campli, which recently closed.
The Corner Pantry
At this sophisticated British cafe located in the Lake Falls Village shopping center, light, spongy crumpets; softball-sized cheddar biscuits; and gluten-free Nutella financiers emerge from the ovens each day. Breakfast draws a crowd with favorites like the “Fat Egg Sammy,” a griddled and buttered crumpet with a fried egg topped with either TCP bacon or ham. Fridays put fish and chips, another of chef Neill Howell’s homages to his English roots, on the menu.
Ethel’s Creole Kitchen
New Orleans meets Baltimore at Ethel’s Creole Kitchen, where chefs Ed Bloom and Nick Creamer capture the essence of Crescent City flavors in their two-story restaurant. Under the tutelage of the late Louisiana chef Paul Prudhomme, Bloom picked up a love for Creole and Cajun cuisine. He and Creamer use Maryland staples to put a local spin on New Orleans classics like jambalaya, gumbo, and fried Chesapeake oysters served with remoulade. To really get into the spirit, order a Sazerac, the official cocktail of New Orleans.
Chiyo Sushi
There are a few great sushi spots in town, but if you ask most locals, they’ll tell you to head to Chiyo in Mt. Washington. In the heart of the merchant’s village, Chiyo has all the standard nigiri and sashimi you might expect, but we especially appreciate specialty selections like the Orioles roll with white tuna, avocado, and tobiko; udon noodle bowls; and banana tempura ice cream. Chiyo now serves lunch and dinner across a newly added upstairs level, joining seating across its downstairs bar or intimate dining room. Order takeout and delivery on the major apps.
Petit Louis Bistro
At this charming, unfussy French bistro in pedestrian-friendly Roland Park, diners have been tearing into warm French bread while diving into escargot, duck confit, and trout amandine for more than two decades. Chilled glasses of Sauternes and steaming bowls of French onion soup (with expertly browned cheese crust dripping over the edge of the bowl) alongside patina walls take diners directly to Europe without a trip out of Baltimore. Plus, there’s plenty of outdoor seating.
Maggie’s Farm
This Lauraville neighborhood restaurant is committed to supporting local farms. Piloted by chef Andrew Weinzirl, Maggie’s Farm is a local destination for comfort food and Maryland staples. Enjoy the burger, Maryland crab cake, and fried green tomatoes inside or on the patio.
The Local Fry
Located at The Rotunda in Baltimore, the compact restaurant was redesigned in 2021 to make it look as if French fries are hanging from the ceiling. Fries with toppings that range from cheese curds, Korean barbecue, and kimchi predictably anchor the menu, but banh mi, po’boys, rice bowls, and chicken wings (or tofu bites for a veg option) are also on tap. The fry shop just expanded to a stall in Camden Yards and is planning to open more franchised locations in the future.
Dylan’s Oyster Cellar
While steamed crabs and crab cakes get a lot of credit for being signature dishes, oysters are just as important to the backbone of Baltimore cuisine. And hardly no one knows that any more than Dylan Salmon, who started his business as a pop-up in a Mt. Vernon basement and then opened his own brick-and-mortar corner restaurant in Hampden. Inside, shuckers are constantly unhinging a rotating variety of raw oysters at the raw bar, while specials of the day are scrawled on a chalkboard wall. Look out for whole fish dishes and don’t leave without trying the green chile cheeseburger and traditional coddies (best appreciated on a Saltine with yellow mustard).
The Urban Oyster
After stints at food hall R. House, the McHenry Row shopping center, and White Hall Mill market, The Urban Oyster planted permanent roots, fittingly, a stone’s throw both from where its chef-owner Jasmine Norton grew up and where she lives now. The aquamarine walls of the 2,200-square-foot dining room are dotted with pop art prints from artist Criss Bellini and a rope tapestry hand-woven in India. The menu reflects this dressed-up approach, as well, with dishes like a whole grilled branzino atop white bean puree and salsa verde, oxtail lasagna, vegan garden risotto, and a tea-brined Cornish hen. Also expect more playful dishes, including a lobster corndog and fried oyster deviled eggs.
The Food Market
Chef Chad Guass packs enormous flavors into a menu filled with hearty comfort food hits like Amish soft pretzels with beer cheese fondue, mozzarella sticks, cider-brined pork chops with whipped sweet potatoes, and crab cakes with lobster mac and cheese. The Baltimore club sandwich raises the bar of a classic BLT by piling a crab cake and shrimp salad on a soft potato bread. Check out the Heath bar-flavored bread pudding for dessert.
La Cuchara
Located in Baltimore’s historic Meadow Mill, La Cuchara brings vibrance to a space that was formerly home to the London Fog raincoat company. The center dining room and ample bar offer views into the kitchen, where chef Ben Lefenfeld prepares Basque dishes like pan con tomate, strip steak with black garlic butter, and chilled seafood. The seasonal menu changes daily.
True Chesapeake
The dream team of chef Zack Mills, oyster expert Nick Schauman, and Patrick Hudson took the bounty of Hudson’s family oyster farm in St. Mary St. Mary’s County and turned it into a seafood restaurant in Whitehall Mill. Order Chesapeake classics including spaghetti and middle neck clams, roasted oysters, a farmhouse salad with seasonal veggies, crab dip mac and cheese, and miso-glazed snakehead for a true Maryland experience. Be sure to check out the killer happy hour from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., for $6 martinis, $5 draft beers, and $2 roasted oysters with butter, Parm, and Old Bay.
Blacksauce Kitchen
Blacksauce Kitchen is known for its biscuits, but the partly mobile kitchen (found at farmers markets and at its 29th Street storefront) dishes items like braised lamb shoulder, crispy eggplant, or oxtail offered on buoyant breads. The market menu can vary from the storefront, so check before going.
Chachi’s
At Chachi’s, comfort food is always on the menu — whether in the form of signature rotisserie chicken or schmaltzy potatoes covered in chicken drippings and coarse salt. Chachi’s has also perfected the art of the sauce, whether it’s marinated beets with tahini yogurt, roasted mushrooms with peanut salsa macha, or green anchovy sauce to pair with chicken. In the summer, an ideal dinner is a fresh and hearty salad of butter lettuce, thin watermelon radish, and tons of Parm enjoyed on a picnic table under string lights.
Clavel
Plants in clay pots, twinkling string lights, and simple white walls transport diners at this concrete, Sinaloa-style taqueria in Old Goucher as plates of bubbling queso and silver trays of tacos, ceviches, and more from fly out of the kitchen. Smoky mezcal stars at the James Beard-nominated bar and the chefs grind their own corn for masa in a newly added nixtamalería.
Le Comptoir du Vin
This European bistro showcases French-leaning dishes with a compact, rotating menu scrawled and updated on a chalkboard. Take a seat in the intimate dining room or in the cozy, heated outdoor area for dishes like classic pub toasties, jarred pâté, poached ox tongue or smoked haddock pie, pistachio pavlova, and natural wine.
Foraged
Seven years ago, chef and owner Chris Amendola built this Station North restaurant around his passion for foraging and finding seasonal ingredients in the woods — and all that hard work was recognized by the James Beard Foundation. His hit dish is a mushroom stew with homemade ricotta, poached egg, fines herbes, and pine nuts. Meanwhile, lion’s mane mushrooms turn up in a vegan Maryland “crab” cake served with remoulade. One part of the menu is devoted to pig snout, chin, socket, tongue, and ears.
Alma Cocina Latina
This transportive dining room at this Venezuelan Station North oasis features a diverse tangle of healthy, green plants, playful wall murals of a fish and a rooster, and a playlist of Latin music in the background. Alma was where top chef Enrique Limardo got his start before heading to D.C. to open Seven Reasons. Now, rising Venezuelan chef David Zamudio meticulously plates Latin gyoza, Caribbean scallops, stuffed arepas, and a stunning burrata salad bursting with South American ingredients. Most of their menu is gluten free, with lots of vegan and vegetarian options. In 2023, Alma owner Irena Stein came out with an arepa cookbook.
Cookhouse
The Bolton Hill neighborhood is truly stunning, with its soaring brownstones, grass-filled medians, and bespoke gardens. So it’s fitting that a cornerstone restaurant like Cookhouse be just as beautiful. Natural light splashes onto a long marble bar, exposed brick, and rich blue velvet banquets, where there is truly no bad seat in the house. Start off with a tamarind and lime infused daiquiri. Snack on apps like a Caesar steak tartar with fried capers or crispy honey-gochujang wings. Other standouts include crispy pork knuckle with beer gravy, vegetarian curry stew, and a truly incredible wagyu brisket-chuck burger with creamy mature English cheddar, smoked tomato-bacon jam, and crispy onions (only available on Thursdays).
Mera Kitchen Collective
To say Mera Kitchen Collective is unique would be an understatement. This worker-owned cooperative started off as pop-ups and now has its own permanent corner in Mt. Vernon to empower refugees to tap into their culinary heritage through cooking. Here you’ll find Middle Eastern, African, and Latin cuisine (with a lot of vegan and vegetarian options) including creamy hummus and eggplant mutubal, crushed red lentil soup, Burkina-style plantains, and carne asada tacos. A colorful mural from a local artist offers a vibrant backdrop while dining outdoors.
Magdalena Restaurant
About as fancy as Baltimore gets, the restaurant inside the luxe Ivy Hotel features innovative interpretations of Maryland cuisine. Executive chef Ülfet Ralph (who’s had time with Chef Daniel Bouloud) has created a menu including dishes like Chesapeake Bay scallops with black walnut miso, and compressed apples and a seasonal risotto with curry spiced sweet potato and pickled beech mushrooms. Exceptional desserts include an banoffee Cale served with caramelized bananas and toffee ice cream; and a citrus cardamom pavlova with cardamom cream and blood orange granita. There’s also an extensive selection of whiskeys and cocktails.
The Helmand
This venerable Afghani restaurant has delighted Mount Vernon residents for over 30 years with kaddo borwani, baked baby pumpkin dolloped with yogurt, and mantwo, a pastry stuffed with beef and onions. If choosing one dish seems overwhelming, go with a group of five or more and ask for “family style” service, and the staff will drop off a variety of large portions to share. The restaurant offers takeout, limited delivery, and indoor dining. There’s also a smattering of sidewalk tables along Charles Street.
- Order delivery from Grubhub
- 806 North Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, United States
- (410) 752-0311
- Visit website
Restaurante Tio Pepe
This subterranean, white-tablecloth dining room at this Franklin Street Spanish and Mediterranean restaurant opened in the late ‘60s. Since then, generations of Baltimoreans have celebrated birthdays and special occasions, and each likely included an order of puffed potatoes. Some of its waitstaff has been there since day one, which adds to its nostalgic appeal.
Faidley’s Seafood
Though the iconic Lexington Market just wrapped up a $45 million remodel, a stall that didn’t go anywhere was Faidley’s Seafood. The ever-popular seafood stall is still serving fist-sized crab cakes handmade by Nancy Faidley Divine herself, as well as lake trout, soft-shell crabs, clams, and, of course, oysters. (If you’re missing a taste of Baltimore, you can also get the crab cakes shipped).
Little Donna’s
When neighborhood stalwart Henninger’s closed 2021, industry vet and Midwest native Robbie Tutleswki and his wife Kaleigh Schwalbe swept in to do the nearly impossible: maintain a nostalgic, lived-in feeling while creating something wholly new that landed on New York Times’ coveted best restaurants list. Little Donna’s is named for Tutleswki’s late Yugoslavian grandmother, whose warmth is felt in the homey decor and constant cooking is reflected on the menu. Think plush sausage- and kraut-filled pierogies, a crisp Serbian-influenced crab pancake, pork schnitzel from local Ostrowski’s Sausage, and warm apple hand pie for dessert. The chef’s signature, thin-crust tavern pizzas are fired to perfection, no doubt thanks to Tutleswki’s decade of work with Chris Bianco. But what really makes it feel like Baltimore is the local love on the drink menu, including a Daddy’s Beer on Ice: a Union Zadie’s lager, Clamato, hot sauce, and lime with a chile rim.
Johnny Rad’s Pizzeria Tavern
The owners behind Johnny Rad’s have developed a bit of a mini empire with the addition of sausage bar Snake Hill in Highlandtown and disco dive The Royal Blue in Station North. But it all started in Upper Fells Point with this skate-punk pizza pub. Rotating weekly specials, tons of vegan options, and a local drink list set this place apart. But, of course, there’s the pizza — Neapolitan style crust with a variety of toppings like the charred pepp cups on the Pepe Martinez, mushrooms and spinach on the Trainwreck, and jalapeño and pineapple on the Hisoi. Be sure to fit in a round of pinball or Skee-Ball in the back.
Ekiben
Beloved co-owners Steve Chu and Ephrem Abebe diligently source flavors from Ethiopia, Taiwan, Thailand, and India at both the Fells Point, Locust Point, and Hampden locations. Diners happily wait in line for favorites like tempura broccoli, “tofu brah” with spicy peanut sauce, or Taiwanese curry chicken on pillowy steamed gluten-free buns or atop rice bowls. Follow the busy restaurant’s Instagram page to see the latest menus, the food truck’s whereabouts, and some of the best memes around.
Costiera
This Mediterranean-inspired spot has plenty of comforting pastas and seafood dishes sourced from the mid-Atlantic. Start with the experimental crudos integrating ingredients like salsa verde and dill yogurt with raw fish and scallops. If you’re looking for something bright, go for the squash and stracciatella-studded pesto rigatoni and if you want something on the heavier side try the whole wheat tagliatelle with beef and pork ragu. You can’t go wrong with large plates like the grilled halibut with saffron cream or harissa-rubbed half chicken with carrot top chutney and roasted carrots.
Peter’s Inn
The quaint and quirky Peter’s Inn has had many lives. More than 30 years ago, it was a rowdy biker bar, but Bud and Karin Tiffany have turned it into one of the city’s go-to dining destinations. People flock to the row home restaurant for martini service, incredible garlic bread, an irresistible one-bite scallop dish, signature steak entrees, and a famed chocolate pot du creme. In 2017, a fire closed the restaurant for a little while, but in typical Peter’s fashion, it didn’t keep them down for long. The restaurant is back with a new shiny tin ceiling and the same stellar dishes coming out of the kitchen.
Thai Street
The Thai stall in Fell’s Point’s historic Broadway Market has quickly become a neighborhood staple. Recipes passed down through generations use traditional techniques with a street vendor twist as the kitchen puts out regional specialties like khao soi, red or green curry, pad see ew, and a signature pineapple fried rice. Dishes can come very spicy, so keep that in mind when selecting a spice level.
- Order delivery from Grubhub
- Broadway Market 1640, Aliceanna St #11, Baltimore, MD 21231, USA
- (667) 212-5906
- Visit website
The Wren
The team behind award-winning French bistro Le Comptior du Vin opened a cozy “American Irish” pub in Fells Point in February. In true Irish tradition, the space feels more like someone’s home basement bar than a gastropub, which is just what co-owners Will Mester, Rosemary Liss, and Millie Powell intended. The front half is a typical-to-Baltimore long row house bar with Guinness on draft and thoughtful cocktails like a Blood & Sand. The bar team inherited inventory from scotch bar Birds of a Feather, so there are plenty of options. The back half of the bar continues that rec room-feel with a fireplace, and a space for traditional Irish music and a darts league. But the cuisine is what really sets The Wren apart. On a recent visit, we sank into a bowl of pork cheeks, turnips, bacon, and chard floating in a deliciously deep broth. Other standouts include a perfectly crafted omelet with mushrooms and Lancashire cheese, and black pudding pooling alongside brown sauce and a sage fried egg.
Ramen Utsuke
Across from the Inner Harbor, bowls brim with Japanese Kyushu-style tonkotsu ramen and miso ramen, while affordable bento boxes are stuffed with tempura-fried seafood or chicken, teriyaki, and more served alongside rice, seaweed salad, cabbage, Japanese potato croquettes, green beans, and sauce for dipping.
- Order delivery from Grubhub
- 414 Light St Ste 103, Baltimore, MD 21202, USA
- (443) 563-2977
- Visit website
NiHao
Peter Chang’s NiHao had a whirlwind debut, opening in the dark days of the pandemic, and quickly gaining national attention for its top-notch Sichuan cooking from the James Beard Foundation. Lydia Chang and JBA-nominated pastry pro Pichet Ong own and operate this 120-seat Canton restaurant where they serve a Chinese menu incorporating vegetarian hits like eggplant and garlic sauce and mapo tofu alongside green peppercorn flounder, dim sum options, and half or whole Peking duck from executive chef Antoni Szachowicz.
Bunny’s Buckets and Bubbles
We often wonder when Jesse Sandlin sleeps. The Top Chef alum is seemingly brimming with ideas, whether it’s her vibrant Highlandtown spot Sally O’s or neighborhood bar the Dive. But locals can tell she poured her entire heart and soul into Bunny’s, a stylized diner where fried chicken and champagne are at the forefront, which she opened last spring. In a stunning transformation, the longtime Wharf Rat space (all dark wood, like the belly of a ship) morphed into a sparkling, retro-tinged oasis. Whether you’re perched at the huge center bar or one of the round booths in the corner, Bunny’s is made for snacking and sipping — Ritz crackers with creamy pimento cheese dip, dressed deviled eggs, or melty biscuits with honey butter. Playfully named cocktails (we are partial to the gin-based Ramona Flowers) and welcome spirit-free options round out the menu. Of course, patrons can order fried chicken by the bucket, on a sandwich with hot honey and ranch, or atop a black-eyed pea cassoulet. Those options are also available during weekend brunch, when Bunny’s truly shines.
Thames Street Oyster House
To find Thames Street Oyster House, head towards the water and cobblestoned streets of Fells Point. Inside is a raw bar with plenty of local oysters to choose from and a great take on Baltimore’s favorite drink, the orange crush. But the vibe tends to veer more towards New England, with dishes like Block Island scallops or the lobster roll on a warm, buttered bun. Generally expect to wait a while for a table (ask about seats on the back patio), but you can walk around a beautiful neighborhood while you bide your time.
Café Dear Leon
Lines often stretch down the sidewalk in front of this petite Canton pastry shop, where Cheolsoo Lee, Sungae Lee, and Min Kim serve tamago sando (Japanese egg sandwich), smoked salmon on everything focaccia, and frittata sandwiches. Items are released daily according to a strict itinerary, so plan accordingly to score oat scones (6 a.m.), pain au chocolate (9 a.m.), and crab and egg sandwiches (11 a.m.).
Gunther & Co.
It’s hard to believe that Gunther & Co. in Brewers Hill is almost a decade old. That’s because since it first opened in the boiler room of the historic Gunther Brewery building in 2016, it has always felt modern and innovative. Executive chef Jerry Trice made a name for himself in Annapolis and D.C. before opening the restaurant with his partner, Nancy Trace Hart. From its massive living green wall, sprawling open kitchen, and its globally influenced dishes that have stood the test of time, Gunther always feels like a fancy night out without the typical hefty price tag. The duck confit and scallion spring rolls (on the menu since opening) feel like a luxurious start to a meal that could consist of a bright, spicy Thai seafood hot pot, a locally dry-aged beef burger, or pan-roasted rockfish dotted with fried oysters. Most impressive is Gunther’s commitment to local sourcing while infusing flavors from halfway around the world.
SoBo Cafe
Planted in the post-college town of Federal Hill beyond the limits of the lively bar scene, Sobo recently celebrated a decade at its row home restaurant space. Embodying the city’s charming hospitality, owners Ana and Linda Leventis treat everyone like family as the cafe hums with locals and new graduates flocking there to impress visiting parents. The Sobo burger with fingerling potatoes and salad is a winning trifecta, and there are plenty of vegetarian, vegan, and gluten-free dishes. A parklet is prime for outdoor happy hour.
Hersh’s
This South Baltimore haven from siblings Josh and Stephanie Hershkovitz claimed its place as the city’s top pizza destination when it opened over 10 years ago. The classic wood-fired Neapolitan margherita is a quintessential masterpiece, with rich red sauce and melted mozzarella on a chewy, stretchy, lightly spotted dough. Crispy cauliflower, burrata, meatballs, and other pizza and pasta are particularly wonderful when enjoyed near the near the wood-fired oven or out on the patio.
