Source: Baltimore.org — Best Seafood
Type: article
Category: seafood
URL: https://baltimore.org/what-to-do/where-to-find-baltimores-best-seafood/
---

Where to Find Baltimore’s Best Seafood
Dig into classic cuisine from the Chesapeake Bay at some of the best seafood restaurants in Baltimore.
Baltimore seafood restaurants take their craft very seriously. There are endless ways to savor Maryland blue crabs, fresh local oysters and other bounties of the Chesapeake Bay. Read on to find out where you can enjoy the best seafood in Baltimore.
The Choptank
The Choptank is an upscale Baltimore seafood restaurant located in Broadway Market’s 200-year-old south shed. This classic Maryland fish and crab house focuses on steamed crabs, oysters and rockfish, with indoor and outdoor seating in the heart of Baltimore’s historic Fell’s Point neighborhood.
Dylan’s Oyster Cellar
Faidley’s Seafood
Founded in 1886, Faidley’s is famous for its jumbo lump crab cakes. Located in the historic Lexington Market, this Baltimore seafood restaurant also sells oysters, fried fish, coddies (a fried mixture of salt cod and potato served between saltines with mustard), classic Maryland crab soup and more.
Kooper’s Tavern
Like its namesake Kooper, the owners’ yellow Labrador who passed in 2007, this Fell’s Point eatery wants all its guests to leave with a smile on their face after enjoying delicious food and strong drinks. They’re famous for their burgers, but their seafood is just as savory. Get your crab fix in the form of a classic crab cake or in the crab dip topped with pico de gallo, melted cheeses and Old Bay. Other options include the seafood gumbo, which has been featured on Diners, Drive-ins and Dives, or the ahi tuna wrap with wasabi aioli. Kooper’s also has ample outdoor seating, so you can enjoy scenic views of the Patapsco River while you eat.
Mama’s on the Half Shell
Mama’s on the Half Shell quickly became a Baltimore seafood institution after opening in 2003. For more than 15 years, the Canton gastropub has served Charm City classics like crab cakes, coddies, rockfish and, of course, oysters on the half shell. Wash it down with a crush, a classic Baltimore summer drink featuring fresh-squeezed juices, vodka and crushed ice.
Nick’s Fish House
With its open air wood deck and docks overlooking the water, Nick’s will make you feel like you’ve been transported to a beach town. This Baltimore Peninsula seafood restaurant is the perfect spot to dig into a pile of freshly steamed crabs, but save some room for the crab cake or fresh catch of the day.
Rusty Scupper
As far as views go, it doesn’t get much better than the Rusty Scupper’s. Located in the heart of the Inner Harbor near the Maryland Science Center, the spacious three-story restaurant provides a panoramic picture of the water. Opt for a seat on the expansive 172-seat patio in the warmer months. The menu features upscale American cuisine, though seafood is the Rusty Scupper’s specialty. You can’t go wrong with any of the crab dishes, especially the crab cakes or crab dip. And for dessert? A classic Maryland Smith Island cake.
Thames Street Oyster House
This Fell’s Point mainstay is always packed—it’s nearly impossible to get a seat without a reservation—and rightfully so. Besides the long list of raw bar offerings, Thames Street has garnered fame for a lobster roll that gives seafood shacks in New England a run for their money.
True Chesapeake Oyster Co.
True Chesapeake Oyster Co. serves fresh oysters from its own farm in southern Maryland. Chef Zack Mills serves the shellfish raw, steamed and in signature dishes like classic Rockefeller and semolina fried oysters, complemented by varied seasonal entrees, ranging from yellow perch with caramelized peaches to grilled pork loin with ramp spaghetti.
The Urban Oyster
After years spent cultivating a fandom via farmers markets and pop-ups across the city, Chef Jasmine Norton recently opened a sit-down restaurant, The Urban Oyster, in Hampden. The first female and Black-owned oyster bar in the country, The Urban Oyster provides high-quality seafood in a relaxed atmosphere. The menu includes plenty of oyster dishes—think chargrilled, cheese-topped oysters and zesty oyster tacos—as well as non-seafood delicacies like oxtail lasagna and her signature burger.
Woodberry Kitchen
Spike Gjerde, the James Beard award-winning chef and owner of Woodberry Kitchen, was one of the first to make farm-to-table (or ocean-to-table) the standard in Baltimore. All ingredients are seasonal and local, including the house-made Snake Oil Hot Sauce, featuring Maryland fish peppers. We recommend adding a dab to Woodberry’s oysters or rockfish.
