Source: Baltimore.org — Budget Friendly
Type: article
Category: budget
URL: https://baltimore.org/what-to-do/where-to-eat/budget-friendly-baltimore-restaurants/
---

Budget-Friendly Baltimore Restaurants
Sit back and enjoy a stress-free meal in Charm City, where good food is good for your wallet.
From buttery steamed crab to perfectly-seared steaks, made-from-scratch pastas and delectable pastries, Baltimore’s food scene boasts something for everyone—and every budget. While our high-dollar dinner spots are well worth the cost, Baltimore’s more affordable restaurants deliver just as much deliciousness. From budget-friendly breakfasts to hefty happy hour discounts and lower-cost main courses, the eateries below will satisfy both your stomach and your wallet. After you’ve planned your low-cost meals, check out all there is to do in Baltimore for less than $25 (or for free!), because budget travel doesn’t have to be boring.
Budget Breakfasts in Baltimore
Blue Moon Cafe
With colorful exteriors and funky artwork in the windows, this celestial diner’s storefronts in Fell’s Point and Federal Hill are hard to miss. Also drawing attention is the crowd that accumulates on weekends (Blue Moon does not take reservations)—a testament to the diner’s popularity amongst locals. Don’t be dissuaded, though; the line usually moves quickly and is well worth it to sample some of the most delicious (and affordable!) breakfast dishes Charm City has to offer. They’re known for their playful French toasts variations, such as Cap’n Crunch, crab dip and frito pie, but you can’t go wrong with any order.
Blacksauce Kitchen
One of the best places to start a Saturday morning in Baltimore is the 32nd Street Farmers Market, a year-round market that sells fresh produce and meat as well as hot food from local vendors. One of those vendors is Blacksauce Kitchen, well known for their savory breakfast sandwiches on made-from-scratch biscuits. The unexpected flavor combos (think pastrami with smoked cherry jam or roasted pears with manchego) never miss. Blacksauce Kitchen also has a storefront in Remington from which you can pick up online orders. The menu is always changing, so visit their Instagram to see what they’re cooking up each week.
Kneads
Operated by the family behind the famous H&S Bakery, once the largest privately owned bakery in the United States, Kneads ticks all the boxes. The spacious Harbor East restaurant—which also has locations in Canton and Cross Keys—invites you to sit down and savor a meal with a friend, grab a quick coffee and pastry to go, or work remotely in the upstairs lounge space. If sitting in, the JP Mac burger is a must-try; the high-end twist on the Big Mac is an homage to H&S founder Steve Paterakis’ son John. There are also plenty of drool-inducing sweet options. Those with more of an appetite should opt for the brioche French toast while the fresh danishes and donuts make perfect light bites. Don’t forget to try a specialty espresso or tea beverage!
Hefty Happy Hours & Small Bites
Blue Agave
Shake off your workday in the warm and welcoming Blue Agave, located within walking distance of the Inner Harbor, Camden Yards and M&T Bank Stadium in the lively Federal Hill neighborhood. Happy hour happens Monday and Friday at the bar and outside patio, and extends to the main dining room on Tuesdays. Go for the strong drinks (Hello, $6 margarita!) and specialty tacos, but don’t miss the fresh guacamole, mini quesadillas and elote.
The Food Market
At this Hampden hot spot, Chef Chad Gauss combines foods you know and love with innovative technique. Their weekday happy hour boasts an abundance of drool-worthy munchies, including single servings of their coveted mozarella sticks, amish pretzels, street tacos and cheesesteak buns for $5 and under. For those seeking something a little heartier, happy hour also includes lower prices on Food Market‘s mussels, sandwiches and oyster carbonara as well as desserts and alcoholic beverages.
The Dive
Blast to the past during The Dive’s weekday “70s Hour,” which serves up a hefty dose of nostalgia alongside mouthwatering McDonalds-esque happy meals. Pick from a burger, filet-o-fish or chicken sandwich—all of which come with a side of fries for under $8. Can’t make it to happy hour? The Dive is also one of the few late-night restaurants in Baltimore, with the kitchen staying open until midnight to satisfy your post-club cravings.
Love, Pomelo
This cozy Italian restaurant concept from the owners of the Instagram-famous Cafe Dear Leon bakery in Canton invites you to unwind and connect with loved ones during Aperitivo Hour. Tuesday through Friday from 5-6 p.m., enjoy special pre-dinner bites and discounted drinks in a sleek, intimate atmosphere. Plus, on Wednesdays, indulge in Love, Pomelo’s fresh, house-made pastas for a lower price of $20 per dish.
The Helmand
For as upscale as this Mount Vernon institution is, the menu boasts several affordable appetizer options. You can’t go wrong with The Helmand’s borwani or mantwo, but it’s hard to beat the aushak: These Afghan dumplings feature fresh leeks encased in a thin dumpling wrapper, plated on a bed of mint yogurt and topped with a ground beef sauce. Need a bigger plate? You can snag the entrée portion, as well as ample vegetarian dishes, for under $20.
The Outpost American Tavern
This Federal Hill favorite marries a homey, pub-style atmosphere with playful takes on classic American dishes. Monday through Friday from 4-6 p.m., you can sip on select beers for less than $2 or sample the house cocktails for less than $10. As for food, enjoy deals on menu mainstays like the spicy mac and cheese and the tempura fried donuts as well as happy-hour-only offerings such as gooey stracciatella toast and crispy chicken sliders. Keep an eye out for Outpost’s weekday specials as well, from elevated burgers to charcuterie boards.
Tagliata
As one of Baltimore’s more upscale Italian restaurants, the Atlas-owned Tagliata is a place you’d typically reserve for special occasions or celebrations—if it wasn’t for their stellar weekday happy hour. Sunday through Friday from 4-6 p.m., enjoy lunch-sized portions of Tagliata’s signature dishes, such as rigatoni alla vodka and veal bolognese for $10 or less, as well as discounted wine, beer and cocktails.
Thames Street Oyster House
This Fell’s Point mainstay is always packed—it’s nearly impossible to get a seat without a reservation—and rightfully so. But go right at open on weekdays, or between lunch and dinner on weekends, and you won’t only get a table, but you’ll get access to sweet drink deals and bar specials. Thames Street‘s menu changes regularly to reflect what’s in-season, but the $2 local, mid-Atlantic and northeastern oysters are a happy hour mainstay.
Affordable Entrees in Baltimore
Clavel
Before you even take a bite, this Remington mezcaleria and taqueria’s incandescent string lights and gorgeous greenery will have you dying to snap a picture for of Instagram. Just as stylish is the Sinaloan-inspired menu, which boasts modern takes on classic Mexican dishes. Standouts include the lamb tacos with barbacoa braised in Mexican coffee and ceviche with lime-cured shrimp, spicy cilantro pesto and cucumber. There’s more to Clavel’s tortillas than meets the eye, too: the flour version is the result of Head Chef Carlos Raba’s own family recipe.
Ekiben
From Taiwanese curry fried chicken to ancho chile pork, Ekiben’s flavors are far from subtle. Savor their expertly seasoned proteins in a rice bowl or sandwiched between massive pillowy house-made steamed bao buns. Pro tip: get a side of sambal mayo or pickled veggies to really pamper your taste buds. With locations in Hampden, Fell’s Point and Locust Point, this locally loved eatery can fit into any itinerary.
The Empanada Lady
After her Puerto Rican family’s empanada recipe gained popularity at local markets and pop-ups, Elisa Milan, aka the Empanada Lady, opened her downtown restaurant in 2023. Create your own culinary adventure by picking from an assortment of empanada fillings: beef, chicken, crab, salmon, apple and more. No matter what you select, every bite will be pure bliss thanks to the flaky and tender crust that brings it all together.
Johnny Rad’s
Nothing hits the spot after a full day of exploring quite like a pizza, and Johnny Rad’s pies are unlike any you’ve had before. The eclectic Patterson Park pub-meets-pizzeria pairs adventurous toppings with expertly charred crust, making it impossible to have a bad bite. There are 12 specialty pies to choose from, but Hosoi pizza is next-level, pairing pickled jalapeno, smoked bacon and fresh pineapple for a spicy-salty-sweet combo.
Little Donna’s
Pierogies are a menu staple at Little Donna’s, a rowhouse restaurant in Upper Fell’s Point that’s been praised by the New York Times. Here, Chef Robbie slings pierogies exactly the way his Yugoslavian grandmother, Donna, taught him as a kid. Expertly seasoned potatoes are encased inside a tender pierogi dough and pan fried with onion, then topped with sour cream and a few not-your-grandmother’s extras: red chili garlic oil, sesame seeds, lemon and herbs.
The Royal Blue
This colorful eatery in Station North Arts & Entertainment District may be known for its eccentric decor, glittery dance floor and specialty cocktails, but The Royal Blue‘s cuisine is just as impressive. Dining with a group is the perfect opportunity to sample their selection of bar bites, which include spicy brussel sprouts, fried plantains and mac and cheese. For mains, the smash burger and Caesar salad wrap always hit the spot, and their ample vegan options are just as appetizing.
Rocket to Venus
For a dining experience that’s out of this world, head to Rocket to Venus in Hampden. This neighborhood spot combines a quirky, retro-futuristic vibe with a menu of imaginative comfort food. You can build your own burger, enjoy a classic meatloaf or try their famous tater tots—all without breaking the bank. During warmer months, opt for a seat on the spacious, dog-friendly patio.
Sweet (Treat) Deals
The Avenue Bakery
At the heart of the Pennsylvania Avenue Black Arts & Entertainment District is The Avenue Bakery. The famous “Poppay’s Rolls” are enormous buttery soft bread rolls inspired by owner Jim Hamlin’s mother’s recipe and named for the title given to him by his granddaughter. The bakery also sells a delicious selection of breads, cakes, pies and pastries. The front lobby and the exterior of the bakery are adorned with photographs, plaques and murals depicting African American history in Baltimore.
Video: James Hamlin, owner of The Avenue Bakery, on the history of Pennsylvania Avenue.
Motzi Bread
Named for a Hebrew blessing over bread, Motzi Bread is dedicated to serving its neighbors fresh breads and pastries made with locally sourced grains regardless of whether they can pay full price to ensure no one goes hungry. From their storefront in Charles Village, you can also get baguettes, sesame rye, focaccia and einkorn as well as sweeter treats such as chocolate chip cookies, granola and cardamom buns. Or find their bread on the menu at local spots like Artifact Coffee, Dutch Courage and Le Comptoir Du Vin.
Sacré Sucré
In early 2024, this Fell’s Point bakery opened a new, larger storefront with more space to relax and feast on sweet treats. If you must choose just one item on Sacré Sucré’s menu of colorful and complex confections, let it be their classic croissant. The pastry takes three days to make, resulting in an impossibly delicate, flaky and buttery experience that’ll remind you what a real croissant is supposed to taste like.
