Source: Baltimore.org — International Dining
Type: article
Category: international
URL: https://baltimore.org/what-to-do/international-dining-in-baltimore/
---

International Dining in Baltimore
Save your miles and reduce your carbon footprint—take your palate on an international journey with this guide to worldly dining.
Baltimore has long been a melting pot of immigrants from all over the world, starting with the German and Irish who arrived in the mid-1800s, and later including Polish, Italians, Greeks and more. Today we boast a majority African American population, a fast-growing Hispanic community and a burgeoning Chinatown revival. There’s a lot to celebrate about the energy, experiences and customs that immigrants bring to a city. But one of the best side effects? The food! Follow our guide to explore tastes from nearly every continent and celebrate the city’s diverse population (and palate!).
Looking for more ethnic eateries all in one place? Baltimore’s public markets offer plenty of international dining options.
Latin American Restaurants in Baltimore
Alma Cocina Latina
Located in Station North Arts & Entertainment District, Alma Cocina Latina takes a contemporary approach to Venezuelan cuisine. Chef Irena Stein published the first arepa-focused cookbook in the world, so you’ll want to try the the arepa pabellón from the takeout window; her rendition of Venezuela’s national dish contains layers of black bean purée, fried plantain, shredded beef and fontina cheese. Must-try items on the dinner menu include the gazpacho, the solomo criollo and the cheesy tequeños. Also on tap: artisanal sangria and cocktails made with small craft spirits.
Clavel
This mezcaleria and taqueria in the Remington neighborhood pairs a minimalist but cozy style—the white walls and polished concrete surfaces are warmed by wooden furniture, string lights and plenty of green plants—with a similarly stylish and petite menu. Clavel’s take on tacos veers modern, such as the lamb barbacoa, which is braised in Mexican coffee, Modelo Negra and spices, or the shrimp ceviche, cured in lime juice with spicy cilantro pesto and cucumber. Even the tortillas are special: the flour versions are handmade using a fifth-generation family recipe.
Maximón
Based at the Four Seasons in Harbor East, Maximón takes its name from a Mayan god and, fittingly, is inspired by South American and Mexican cuisine, cocktails, design and more. The large space includes a stage for live musical performances, a Spanish-style courtyard and a tequila tasting room where you can blend your own bottle.
Puerto 511
Slightly tucked away in the Bromo Arts District, this petite restaurant takes on Peruvian cuisine that varies from street food to ceviche. At Puerto 511, Chef Jose Victorio Alarcon cooks up specialties such as lomo saltado and arroz con mariscos to perfection.
East Asian Baltimore Restaurants
Dooby’s
Part coffee shop, part casual eatery, this popular spot from local restaurateur Phil Han, offers up a fresh take on Korean cuisine. The menu at Dooby’s includes rice bowls and noodle dishes like gochujang pork ramen, plus fried kimchi rice, interesting sandwiches and tasty snacks such as Korean hot wings and dumplings adapted from a family recipe.
The Duchess
From esteemed Baltimore restaurateur Tony Foreman and Chef Kiko Fejarang comes The Duchess, a culinary concept that marries the congenial vibe of an English pub with indigenous Western Pacific flavors. The menu mostly consists of chesas, or small plates, creating a communal dining experience in which everyone can get a taste of the pork lumpia, Chamorro skewers, spam musubi, crispy shrimp and corn patties and much, much more. Additional brunch and late-night menus offer an international escape any time of day.
Ekiben
What started as a food cart at the Fell’s Point Farmers Market is now a beloved city-wide brand that dishes up Taiwanese curry fried chicken and Thai chicken meatballs in the form of steamed buns or rice bowls, plus specials that change regularly. What doesn’t change, however, is the fusion-fueled perspective—all the food at Ekiben leans pan-Asian, but there are smatterings of other flavors, such as Ethiopian spices and tahini. Visit their brick-and-mortar locations in Fell’s Point, Hampden and South Baltimore.
NiHao
This Canton Szechuan spot from Peter Chang—who has built an empire of lauded restaurants in the Washington region—and pastry chef Pichet Ong quickly gained national attention after opening in 2020. The restaurant combines fresh ingredients and Chinese recipes with Western cooking techniques, resulting in a menu that is equally refreshing and comforting. The homey, handmade furniture and decor beckons you inside, inviting you to sit, relax and enjoy a thoughtfully-made meal.
Ejji Ramen
Located along the back wall inside Belvedere Square Market, this casual spot focuses on Japanese-style ramen, including its signature rich, umami-filled tonkatsu. Beyond the noodle bowls, Ejji offers other pan-Asian nibbles like Malaysian flatbread and coconut rice bowls with eggplant katsu sambal.
Azumi
This stylish spot at the Four Seasons is helmed by a Tokyo native whose impressive resume includes stints at Japanese restaurants in our nation’s biggest cities. At Azumi, he creates a menu that features luxe ingredients like wagyu short rib and miniature Japanese freshwater crabs—a signature appetizer—plus sushi made from fish flown directly from Tokyo’s famous Tsukiji Fish Market.
South Asian Restaurants in Baltimore
The Helmand
For over twenty years, The Helmand has been serving fine Afghan cuisine to Baltimore from its Mount Vernon location. Though they offer an extensive full-course menu of lamb, beef, chicken and seafood dishes, the restaurant has also gained fame for its abundance of vegetarian dishes, such as the kaddo borwani (pan-fried pumpkin) and the banjan borwani (pan-fried eggplant).
Namaste
Nestled in Roland Park, Namaste is a family business run by Binod Uprety and his wife Shrijana Khanal, who often greet guests personally. In addition to traditional Indian fare, Namaste serves Nepalese dishes like momo, a dumpling stuffed with ground chicken thigh and freshly-ground spices, and aloo ko achar, spicy marinated boiled potatoes. For dessert, opt for delicious house-made treats like kheer, gulab jamun or kulfi.
Charm City Caribbean Food
Mama Koko’s
More than a place to grab a hearty meal inspired by Black Southern, West African and Caribbean cuisine, Mama Koko’s is a place to gather your community and be your authentic selves. General Manager Angola Selassie wanted the Old Goucher eatery to exude the same hominess and joy as his mother’s (the Mama Koko’s) home kitchen. There are myriad seating options to serve your crew, from high-top tables to cozy couches and an outdoor patio. In the evening, the space transforms into a stylish cocktail bar serving strong drinks and small plates.
Baltimore's French Restaurants
Petit Louis Bistro
Petit Louis has been bringing a little piece of Paris to Baltimoreans in Roland Park for more than two decades. The menu includes fresh takes on classic French dishes like boeuf bourguignon, duck confit and croque-monsieur. And we’d be remiss not to mention the desserts—creme brûlée, lemon tart, profiteroles and more—all of which have been expertly paired with wines by the on-site sommelier
Spanish Restaurants in Baltimore
La Cuchara
Taking inspiration from the Basque region, La Cuchara is set in a former mill in Woodberry and features an open kitchen centered around a wood-fire grill that plays a role in producing its traditional asador, or grilled meats and seafood, and its pitxos, which are small bites.
Restaurante Tio Pepe
Billed as authentically Spanish, this Baltimore institution in Mount Vernon has been beloved by diners for a half-century. Locals love Restaurante Tio Pepe for good reason; the cozy subterranean spot serves up a traditional regional menu that includes classic favorites like gazpacho, tortillas and paella, plus grilled and roasted meats and seafood.
Tapas Teatro
Petite but energetic, Tapas Teatro, tucked into a small spot next door to The Charles Theatre, is geared toward sharing small plates that include papas bravas, spicy chicken croquettas, crispy grilled squid and more. Don’t forget to check out the list of specialty gin & tonics—or order a pitcher of sangria to share on the charming outdoor patio if the weather is nice.
Italian Restaurants in Baltimore
Chiapparelli’s
If you’re looking for Baltimore’s best Italian food, head to historic Little Italy. Chiapparelli’s has been in the neighborhood for 75 years, known for its old-world atmosphere and legendary house salad with a secret dressing. The family-owned restaurant’s menu also boasts hearty classics like chicken parmigiana, lasagna and “drooling” gnocchi. A short walk away from both the Inner Harbor and Harbor East, Chiapparelli’s is a great place to rest your legs and refuel while you’re out exploring Baltimore’s scenic waterfront.
Cosima
Hidden along the Jones Falls at Mill No. 1 in Hampden, Cosima is a contemporary restaurant serving Southern Italian and Sicilian cuisine. Highlights of the menu include wood-fired pizzas, crispy arancini and the flavorful branzino. The interior features warm lighting and rustic exposed brick, while an outdoor patio illuminated by soft string lights overlooks the water.
Daniela Ristorante
Daniela Ristorante is a tribute to Chef Daniela Useli’s Sardinian heritage and the traditional recipes passed down through generations of her family. The handmade pastas, many of which can be made gluten-free for those with dietary restrictions, delicate pastries and Sardinian-style seafood are all crafted with fresh, locally sourced ingredients. After dining, explore Hampden’s eclectic shops and galleries along “The Avenue,” or take a short walk to Roosevelt Park for a relaxing evening outdoors.
La Scala Ristorante Italiano
Another Little Italy favorite, La Scala Ristorante Italiano is known for its homemade pastas, with standout dishes being the decadent lobster ravioli and the perfectly prepared veal saltimbocca. In between courses, enjoy a game of bocce ball on the restaurant’s indoor court! After your meal, take a stroll through Little Italy’s charming streets.
Sotto Sopra
Nestled in Mount Vernon along the famous Charles Street corridor—the main thoroughfare running through Baltimore—this contemporary Italian restaurant boasts a luxe yet inviting atmosphere. The menu features creative takes on Italian classics, such as squid ink pasta with seafood and the ultra-popular pumpkin ravioli. Vibrant murals line the walls of Sotto Sopra, while dim lighting creates a romantic atmosphere. Plus, it’s just steps away from the Baltimore Basilica and the iconic Washington Monument.
Tagliata
Situated in the upscale Harbor East neighborhood, Tagliata is a sophisticated Italian steakhouse that offers a luxurious dining experience. Known for its house-made pastas, particularly the rigatoni alla vodka, and premium cuts of steak, the restaurant also boasts one of the largest wine cellars in Baltimore. The chic ambiance, complete with live piano music, makes it an ideal date night destination.
Baltimore Mediterranean Cuisine
The Black Olive
Situated on the quaint Belgian block Bond Street in Fell’s Point, The Black Olive is an authentic Greek fish tavern owned by the Spiliadis family, whose recipes have been passed down from generation to generation for more than 100 years. Their success stems from their commitment to using only the freshest seafood, woven into dishes like lobster pasta, soft shell crab phyllo and the restaurant’s legendary fish soup. They are also praised for their extensive wine collection (more than 5,000 bottles) and their expert pairing abilities.
Ammoora
Travel through the Levantine region at this captivating escape nestled within the Ritz-Carlton Residences. The restaurant’s name stems from the Arabic word for love and beauty, concepts that are flawlessly encapsulated by the interior’s warm tiled floors, pink and orange plush seating, ornate florals and sconce lighting. As for food, Syrian native Chef Dima Al-Chaar has crafted an authentic menu bursting with bold flavors. Pick from a variety of fresh spreads to start before feasting on kawaj, lamb or chicken skewers, falafel, pita pies and more for your main course.
Estiatorio Plaka
Estiatorio Plaka may be a newcomer to the Greektown culinary scene, but it has already made a big name for itself. Owner John Zoulis has been a member of the community for 30 years, so when it came time for him to open a restaurant in the site of the former Acropolis Restaurant, locals and city officials alike jumped at the opportunity to sample his pikilia, kasiotiko and kataifi. The cocktail menu also excites with playful creations like the “Olympic Torch,” which consists of Mezcal, cointreau, cucumber, lemon and jalapeno, and the gin-based Mykonos Highball.
Marta
Helmed by esteemed Chef Matthew Oetting, Marta presents innovative Italian flavors and superb drinks in a cozy and bright Butchers Hill building. Everything on the menu, from the tuna cannoli to the sheep’s milk ricotta, is delicious, but the house-made pastas steal the show— particularly the blue crab carbonora with miso and the truffle tagliatelle. The cocktail selection is equally impressive, and there are ample non-alcoholic options as well; opt for one of Marta’s signature spritzes, with or without the Aperol.
Twist
At Twist, executive chef Jose Molina brings personal to the plate as he marries his Hispanic and American influences with his time spent in Greece and the eastern Mediterranean. Try the Mediterranean lamb burger, topped with feta and harissa cucumber yogurt sauce, or the Moroccan spice lamb sausage.
All of the Above: Global Fusion in Baltimore
Mera Kitchen Collective
Located in Mount Vernon, Mera Kitchen Collective is a worker cooperative that offers a distinctive, globally inspired dining experience. By empowering refugee and immigrant chefs to share their culinary heritage, Mera serves up story-worthy food from across the globe. You can taste the traditions of Mexico, El Salvador, Syria, Burkina Faso and beyond in a single meal. Try the crispy cauliflower fritters with cilantro tahini sauce, sample the flavorful West African yassa chicken wings or warm up with a comforting bowl of Palestinian lentil soup. In the spirit of the restaurant’s cooperative model, guests can dine at a communal table that runs through the center of the dining room, encouraging strangers to connect.
Midlina
Just steps from Canton’s waterfront, Midlina draws culinary inspiration from both the Mediterranean and the Middle East. The diverse menu features expertly charred kebabs, colorful mezze platters, aromatic rice dishes and freshly baked breads. An exposed brick wall, well-placed antiques and dim lighting create a charming, intimate setting perfect for date nights or special occasion dinners. After dinner, head to Midlina’s speakeasy, Poe’s Tower, for a nightcap.
