Source: Baltimore.org — Date Night
Type: article
Category: date_night
URL: https://baltimore.org/what-to-do/baltimores-date-night-destinations/
---

Baltimore’s Date Night Destinations
Impress your loved ones at these swanky hotels, award-winning restaurants, cozy cocktail lounges and more.
When it comes to love, Baltimore knows a thing or two. After all, there’s a reason we’re nicknamed Charm City. Whether you’re planning a romantic date or a night out with friends, our luxurious hotels, relaxing spa packages, decadent dinners (and desserts) and can’t-miss group activities are here to help you spoil the special people in your life.
Swoon-Worthy Suites
Spoil your special someone with an evening away from home at one of Baltimore's luxury hotels.
Four Seasons Hotel
This world-renowned hotel’s Harbor East location is an urban retreat rife with luxury amenities like a five-star spa, rooftop pool and a Harley Pasternak-designed fitness facility complete with personal trainers–you can even request an in-room Peloton. For the ultimate Valentine’s treat, book the Four Seasons’ Night Spa Experience, which grants you private after-hours access to the spa’s steam rooms, saunas, relaxation lounge and VIP Couple’s Suite. The Four Seasons is also happy to help you plan the perfect proposal this Valentine’s Day, from sunset views to romantic in-room amenities.
Hotel Revival
Inspired by the vibrant Mount Vernon community which it inhabits, Hotel Revival is Baltimore’s only boutique art hotel. Each room features an expertly-curated assortment of locally made antiques, ceramics, textiles and prints paired with eye-catching wallpapers and even more impressive views of the city. Don’t forget to end the night with a meal at Revival’s on-site restaurant, Topside, which boasts some of the best views of the neighborhood and Baltimore’s historic Washington Monument.
The Ivy
This 1880s mansion turned romantic modern hotel boasts seventeen spacious rooms and suites for you and your loved one to enjoy. There’s plenty to explore in the surrounding Mount Vernon neighborhood, but we won’t blame you if you want to spend your days in the hotel’s sun-filled courtyard, cozied up with a book in the library or practicing piano or pool on the main floor. For a romantic weekend getaway, we recommend booking room thirteen, which boasts a quaint dining turet overlooking the neighborhood’s charming cobblestone streets, or suite seven, whose large bright bathroom includes two vanities and a luxurious soaking tub.
Pendry Baltimore
Just a short drive or water taxi ride away from the Inner Harbor, Pendry Baltimore is an ideal place to rest your head after a day spent exploring the Frederick Douglass-Isaac Myers Maritime Museum or Broadway Market. The impressive 1914 Fell’s Point property boasts unparalleled views of the Baltimore harbor, a waterfront pool deck, a garden courtyard and 128 rich, warm rooms fit for you and your partner.
Serene Spas
Unwind while spending time together at these Baltimore spas, salons and wellness centers.
The QG
The QG spa offers the usual suite of facials and massages, but if you’d like something extra, try the HydraFacial, a cutting-edge technique that promises results in just thirty minutes. On the fourth floor is Four One Oh Salon, a spot designed to serve The QG’s female clientele with hair cutting and styling services.
The Well: Community Acupuncture & Wellness
The Well is a relaxing retreat in the heart of Baltimore’s bustling Federal Hill neighborhood. This full-service wellness center specializes in acupuncture, shiatsu, group meditation, reiki, nutrition and massage therapy.
Romantic Restaurants
Intimate taverns, twinkling terraces and beguiling bistros for a dinner that's sure to impress.
The Bygone
For the ultimate romantic dinner, The Bygone will not disappoint. Located on the top floor of the Four Seasons hotel, you are greeted with opulence the second you exit the elevator, from plush velvet seats to cozy booths, plus a menu that delivers the “wow” factor. Plus, the stunning views of the Inner Harbor don’t hurt.
Charleston
Inventive cuisine crafted by chef Cindy Wolf has made this upscale James Beard Award-winning restaurant in Harbor East a beloved favorite since it opened in the late 1990s, and for good reason. Wolf’s menus deftly combine classic French techniques with the comforting cooking of South Carolina.
Cosima
Hidden along the Jones Falls at Mill No. 1 in Hampden, Cosima is a contemporary restaurant serving Southern Italian and Sicilian cuisine. The interior features warm lighting and rustic exposed brick, while the outdoor patio illuminated by soft string lights provides the perfect backdrop for a romantic summer meal.
Sotto Sopra
Nestled in the famous Charles Street corridor–the main thoroughfare running through Baltimore–this contemporary Italian restaurant boasts a luxe yet inviting atmosphere. You can’t go wrong with anything on Sotto Sopra’s menu, but their fresh house-made pastas steal the show. Sample veal agnolotti, short rib ravioli or their signature carbonara.
The Prime Rib
At The Prime Rib’s flagship restaurant, luxury is on the menu. Inspired by the founders’ love for 1940s glamour, the restaurant boasts rich leather seating, tuxedoed waitstaff, a complimentary valet and nightly live musicians. The steaks and seafood, too, are second to none. You’re guaranteed a perfectly roasted prime rib, chilled oysters and an expertly shaken (or stirred) martini.
Petit Louis Bistro
A little piece of Paris imported into Roland Park, this charming bistro has been a local favorite for more than two decades. Voted the best restaurant in Baltimore by Baltimore magazine in 2020, Petit Louis Bistro’s menu includes fresh takes on classic French dishes like duck leg confit, croque-monsieur and grilled lamb steak.
And Don't Forget Dessert...
All you need is love, but we can't say no to chocolate.
Bmore Licks
Located in Canton and Federal Hill, Bmore Licks is a woman-owned second generation ice cream shop and the only one in Baltimore to boast over 100 handmade soft serve flavors—all of which are made to order! Almost as famous as its fresh flavors is the shop’s playful exterior, which features multi-colored murals of ice cream cones and shakes, bright blue windows and string lights.
The Charmery
If you want to please someone special, start with sweets. With an abundance of permanent and seasonal flavors ranging from Maryland mud to cold pizza (yes, really), The Charmery is sure to satisfy any sweet-tooth. Grab a scoop (or two, or three…) at their store in Hampden.
Dangerously Delicious Pies
The name says it all: Dangerously Delicious Pies provides handmade, preservative-free sweet and savory pies that are so good, you’ll have to stop yourself from devouring them whole. Founder Rodney Henry has a background in music, and he infuses a little rock-n-roll into his pies; specialty flavors include “Elvis,” a peanut butter cream, and “Mobtown Brown,” a rich pecan. With free WiFi and a killer playlist, the Canton storefront invites you to sit and stay awhile – if you can resist an extra slice.
Sacre Sucre
It doesn’t get more saccharine than Sacre Sucre, a pastry studio in historic Fell’s Point. Beyond their iconic pink packaging and whimsical decor, this shop is known for their artful presentations and experimental bakes. We’re talking expertly-crafted heart-shaped Valentine’s danishes or egg-shaped macarons at Easter. Plus, Sacre Sucre doubles as a tea and coffee shop, making it the perfect morning date spot.
Vaccaro’s
Known around Baltimore for its selection of fine Italian pastries, Vaccaro’s is as popular today as it was when it first opened in 1956. The robust menu includes 34 varieties of Italian cookies, tiramisu, gelato, cheesecake and rum cake, but we’re partial to the cannolis. Enjoy a full sit down service at their Little Italy location, or pick up some pastries to-go from their shop in Canton.
Cozy Clubs & Cocktail Lounges
Cap off an evening in Charm City with a cocktail and live music.
Bloom’s
Ulysses, the swanky hotel concept from ASH NYC, promises its guests two things: “strong drinks and soft beds.” It delivers on the former with Bloom’s, a self-described “late-night drinking parlor.” The plush pink sofas, warm accent lighting and reflective wrap-around bar evoke the campy, rebellious artistry of Baltimore icon John Waters, and the cocktail menu is just as playful. Create your own Old Fashioned by choosing from a selection of spirit bases and bitters, or try the “Femme Fatale,” composed of Reposado Tequila, mezcal, creme de cacao, Centerbe and bitters.
The Bluebird Cocktail Room
Stylish and inviting, this second-story cocktail bar pairs a sophisticated setting with a literary theme. The Bluebird name comes from a Charles Bukowski poem and drink offerings change seasonally and take thematic inspiration from literature. No detail is spared—ice cubes are custom carved from a 300-pound block—and the concoctions are artfully balanced. As a bonus, head to the building’s basement level to check out the Pub, featuring the same level of craft cocktails alongside a global whiskey menu.
W.C. Harlan
Tucked into a humble Remington rowhouse, this speakeasy-inspired spot pairs a cozy, candlelit setting—complete with period antiques and an authentic 1920s vibe—with expertly crafted cocktails. Expect new riffs on classic drinks at W.C. Harlan, like old fashioneds and pisco sours, reworked with complex, distinctive flavor profiles and stylishly served in vintage glassware.
Cat’s Eye Pub
Famous for being open seven days a week, 365 days a year, this Fell’s Point club has been hosting jazz, blues and rock artists since the ’70s. While you’re there, savor one of the 32 drafts on tap!
Keystone Korner
What do you get when you combine a National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master with a Michelin star chef? You get the revival of Keystone Korner, one of the most famous jazz clubs in the country. The resurrected West Coast club opened in Baltimore in 2019 with the goal to deliver food just as inspiring as the music performed on its stage.
The Elk Room
Ranked as one of Esquire’s best bars in the country in 2018, this Harbor East speakeasy offers up stellar cocktails in a chic, intimate space inspired by the 1920s. At the Elk Room, the guest list is capped at 50 and flash photography is prohibited to play up the secretive vibe. The drink menu is lined with original concoctions, such as “Fool’s Gold,” which consists of four roses bourbon, cherry, lemon, honey, quinquina and eucalyptus. Open until 2 a.m., the Elk Room is a great way to end a romantic evening in Baltimore.
Charm City’s always had a reputation as cocktail capital. Find more must-try drinks, including innovative mocktails, here.
Alternative Date Activities
Romantic dinners are classic, but sometimes it's fun to spice things up. Next time you need to impress your partner or plan your friend group's outing, we suggest these alternative ideas.
Practice your swing at Top Golf
This unconventional driving range offers climate-controlled hitting bays, plenty of food and drink options, music and lounge games. Bays fit up to six people, and its proximity to M&T Bank Stadium and Horseshoe Casino makes it the perfect start, or end, to a day in Charm City.
Take a cooking class at Baltimore Chef Shop
They say cooking is the way to one’s heart, so what better way to spend a date night than preparing a meal with your partner? This Hampden teaching kitchen offers a robust selection of cooking classes on global and regional cuisines, plus skills-based classes for couples, groups and families.
Stargaze at the Maryland Science Center
Giving your partner the world may be easier than you think, thanks to the Davis Planetarium at the Maryland Science Center. Each show is 25-30 minutes and includes breathtaking guided tours of our solar system.
Spend an evening with Shakespeare
It doesn’t get more romantic than listening to proclamations of love with your partner by your side. Between the company’s top-notch productions and the playhouse’s intimate atmosphere, the Chesapeake Shakespeare Company will transport you to Elizabethan England for a night of tears, laughter and heartfelt performances.
Explore Baltimore by boat
Have a memorable meal on the water while taking in the Charm City skyline on a City Cruise dinner or brunch tour. Or, take the celebration up a notch and charter a private yacht with Watermark.
Design your own bouquet at Local Color Flowers
The Waverly florist sources its stems from within a 50-mile radius, and is committed to sustainable practices that help support Baltimore’s farming community.
Paint your own pottery at Amazing Glaze
Explore your partner’s creative side at this Mount Washington studio, the first of its kind in Maryland! The studio provides everything you need to create your own masterpiece, from the pottery to the paints to the glazing tools. Want more practice? Register for one of their guided classes to practice skills like tracing, stenciling or mosaics.
